Assignment 1 Level 1: Profile Card
Task:

Design a profile card containing:
● Profile photo
● Name, designation & short bio
● Social media icon buttons

Focus Areas in Design:
● Center alignment
● Basic spacing and padding
● Font hierarchy (name vs. bio)
● Consistent icon button sizing

What Developers Will Learn:
● HTML structure for cards
● CSS Flexbox basics
● Applying consistent spacing and typography

=>

🛠️ Technologies Used

HTML5 – Structure of the profile card
CSS3 – Styling, layout, and responsiveness
Flexbox – Center alignment and spacing
Font Awesome – Social media icons

🧩 Steps Followed to Build the Project

1. HTML Structure
Created a main container to center the card.
Divided the card into three sections:
Profile photo
Profile information
Social media links

2. Center Alignment Using Flexbox
Used Flexbox on the body to center the card both horizontally and vertically.
Used Flexbox inside the card to align elements in a column.
display: flex;
justify-content: center;
align-items: center;

3. Profile Photo Styling
Used a circular image with border-radius: 50%.
Applied object-fit: cover to maintain image aspect ratio.
Added border and shadow for visual emphasis.

4. Font Hierarchy
Name: larger font size and bold weight.
Designation: medium size with accent color.
Bio: smaller font size with lighter color and increased line height.
This improves readability and visual hierarchy.

5. Spacing and Padding
Used consistent padding inside the card.
Used gap property in Flexbox to maintain even spacing between elements.
Limited bio width to maintain clean text layout.

6. Social Media Icons
Used Font Awesome icons inside anchor (<a>) tags.
Ensured all icons have the same size and circular shape.
Added hover effects for better user interaction.

7. Responsive Design
Added a media query for smaller screens.
Reduced image size, font size, and icon size on mobile devices.
@media (max-width: 480px) {
  /* responsive adjustments */
}

🔑 Key Concepts Used

HTML card layout structure
CSS Flexbox (column layout, center alignment)
Consistent spacing using padding and gap
Hover effects and transitions
Responsive design with media queries

✅ Assignment Outcome

Clean and centered profile card layout
Proper spacing and alignment
Clear text hierarchy
Consistent and interactive social media icons
Fully responsive design
